Overview
In this lab, you will create virtual machines (VMs) and connect to them. You will also create connections between the instances.

Objectives
In this lab, you will learn how to perform the following tasks:

Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.

Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface.

Connect between the two instances.

Step 1:		Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.
	
	
	gcloud compute instances create my-vm-1 --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud" --image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213" --subnet "default" --tags http

	gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-http --action=ALLOW --destination=INGRESS --rules=http:80 --target-tags=http


Step 2:		Create a virtual machine using the gcloud command line.	

	First I want to choose a region and zone where this Virtual machine will reside.

	a.	I would want to display a list of zones in the us-central1 region. To display a list of all the zones from the selected region, 
		
		gcloud compute zones list | grep us-central1
	
	b.	From the list of displayed zones in my selected region of choice [us-central1], I want to set my default zone to a choice of mine. So I enter type this partial command:

		gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b

	Next, I create my VM [my-vm-2]

	c.	To create a VM instance called my-vm-2 in my selected zone, I execute this command:
		
		gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-2" --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud" --image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213" --subnet "default"
	

Step 3:		 Connect between VM instances (Here we are to connect the two VMs[my-vm-1] and [my-vm-2] we have created.
	
	1.	To see the two VM instances you created, each in a different zone.(List all VM instances in a project).
		
		gcloud compute instances list 

	2.	To open a command prompt on the my-vm-2 instance, click SSH in its row in the VM instances list.
		- Connect to VM [my-vm-2]

			gcloud compute ssh my-vm-2

	3.	Use the ping command to confirm that my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the network:
		-Ping VM [my-vm-1] from MV [my-vm-2].

			ping -c 4 my-vm -1

	4.	if you pinged indicating the number of times like I did above [-c 4] i.e ping four(4) times. There would be no need to Press Ctrl+C to abort the ping command 

	5.	Use the ssh command to open a command prompt on my-vm-1:

			ssh my-vm-1

	6.	At the command prompt on my-vm-1, install the Nginx web server:

			sudo apt-get install nginx-light -y

	7.	Use the nano text editor to add a custom message to the home page of the web server:

			sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html

	8.	Use the arrow keys to move the cursor to the line just below the h1 header. Add text like this, and replace YOUR_NAME with your name:

			Hi from Duff 

	9.	save and exit the nano text editor.

			To save my edited file I Press Ctrl + O and hit the ENTER button.

			To exit the nano text editor, I press Ctrl + X

	10.	Confirm that the web server is serving your new page. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

			curl http://localhost/

		Results: The response will be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.
			
	11.	To exit the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

			exit

	12.	To confirm that my-vm-2 can reach the web server on my-vm-1, at the command prompt on my-vm-2, execute this command:

			curl http://my-vm-1/

		Results: The response will again be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.

	13.	Copy the External IP address for my-vm-1 and paste it into the address bar of a new browser tab. You will see your web server's home page, including your custom text.

		- Now get the external IP of the my-vm-1 instance from this command:
			
			gcloud compute instances list --zone us-central1-a

		- Paste the copied IP address of my-vm-1 into a new browser tab and hit enter.	

		Result: You will see your web server's homepage, including your custom text.	